As a retribution (if that's the correct word) for deleting all of my notes and most of my data, I've decided to spend this whole day, and maybe more, to write things down once again.

I guess I'll just keep writing until there's nothing left to write or until things are sorted out. Of course this is just a promise, but whether I will stick to it, time will tell.

Ok so, I guess I'll just write anything that comes to mind that I think is relevant. Relevant to what? Sorting this out, whatever this is.

So what is *this*? Well, I've got a few problems going. I'm having trouble finding work, staying healthy and doing things like chores and stuff. I have figured out the *doing* part. I can do something if needed, I have no problems with willpower and actually doing things I have decided to do. The thing is, I have issues with actually knowing what it is that is supposed to be done, how to define the steps properly.

So for example, let's say I need to make money. That part is clear. But what do I actually do to make money? Which things work, which don't? I've tried a lot of different ways but the common factor it seems is that whether I am making money or not depends a big lot on timely opportunity and chance. I can't just decide to go and make money whenever I feel like it simply because the opportunities to make money are not always present.

Three questions arise: is it actually true that earning/making money are opportunity based tasks? If so, then how do I learn to identity/predicted/seize these opportunities? If not, then how do I make money?

With the second option, it seems that my belief of money requiring opportunity is mostly rooted in the notion that there is someone out there who will at some point present to me this opportunity. In other words, money does not quite grow on trees but rather it grows on other people and these people decide when to hand me any. The idea of trying to convince a person to give me their money to me feels backwards because it kind of imposes on the idea of freedom and stuff like that. I shouldn't need to try to convince a person to give me their money because that is manipulative. Instead I should just 'put myself out there' and let people do research about me and decide whether I am 'worthy'.

In this way we can devise a sort of a middle ground between opportunity and action (which arguably is the only way unless your way of making money is by playing lotteries or waiting for someone to just hand it to you for no reason). Namely a middle ground where we work on our skills while in parallel showcasing these skills in a passive non-intrusive way, and waiting for the right people to reach out *to me*, instead of trying to persuade people to work with me. In this way we can automate, or perhaps align (in the sense that the meaning 'opportunity' inherently means something that you wait for) the opportunity aspect of making/earning money by not needing to actively seek them, but rather just await them.

I can utilize the internet to build a presence/domain.

While using the internet, especially in regards to money and money opportunities, there should be a few rules set in order to ensure that my 'pursue' of money is passive.

1. Do not engage in discussions, respond to comments or posts, other than within my own posts and/or my communities.
2. Remain neutral. Do not share content with any manipulative intent such as trying to showcase your skills, opinions, etc, or convince anyone of anything. More on what that entails after the rules list
3. Private messaging is allowed, but only by the inquiry of the messenger. Reaching out before having been reached out is not allowed, and messaging should preferably be done as a response to something rather than an initiative. Same goes with public messaging within my communities and posts - as passive and neutral as possible

Speaking of rule 2: If we are not posting to showcase our skills, what are we posting for? I mean, if we are posting then we're probably doing so to earn money, aren't we? And if such is the case, shouldn't we be clear about our intent? Of course, earning money is not our only intent, and money is not just intent but also the means to achieve particular goals. The answer is simple - we already know that customers don't want to pay us money. As such, we have no reason to try to persuade them. So we will just *not* post for any reason related to earning money. But what other reason can there be? And if we're already here, thinking about this, wouldn't any reason just be an excuse with the true motive being to earn money? I suppose it would. As such, we will simply refrain from sharing things when the intent is to earn money. So right now, sharing things would not make sense.

So to refine rule 2: Remain neutral. Do not share content *when* your root intent is to earn money. Earning money should be treated as a 'nice to have', and never be the main point of communication.

How do we go about clients that need help from us *to* earn money (Which, probably would be most clients, at least in the space I am in)? I can either not concern myself with that part, and focus on delivering work. Or I can choose to not engage with such clients whatsoever.

Another important point is, how do I approach this once I receive a paid request? I will probably inevitably start thinking about money and the relation of my work to it. Perhaps I can simply allow myself to concern myself with money within the context of the job and allow myself to relate my work to it. But then I am back at 'trying to convince clients'. If I relate my work to money then I will try to work in such a way that helps me get money, which can be manipulative. So, that seems to be out of the question.

I suppose I would just need to keep treating money as a 'nice to have', rather than the main objective of my work.

In this way I can look at money as a means to enable me to work, which is of course true. My pricing would be based on all the requirements I would need in order to fullfill this work in a timeline that would allow me to remain comfortable and not pressured, requirements being fulfilling all my needs for the given timeframe and buying necessary software/equipment etc.

Basically, money is not to be seen as something that is 'for me', but rather as something that is 'for getting the job done'. Which does make sense considering that one only receives money when they work 'for' (for is in quotes because money is not the objective, so it's ironic that we'd be working 'for' it) it.

So yeah. Money is a means to get the job done. The actual objective of the work is something else.

So what is the objective of the work? If money is just a means, I suppose we can put it aside and just keep in mind that it's a means and not the goal.

The goal would be my personal goals, values, visions. It would be very important to work with people/clients who are aligned with these goals because otherwise, why would I be working with them (if not money?). Well, I can imagine some cases where I'd be working for them, namely to support them since their goals might unconsciously be my goals as well without realizing. Other than that there is an aspect of respect to not neglecting people solely because your goals and values differ.

Though one problem arises which is, what to do when I don't have any work, and thus no money? I am fairly reliant on money so it will still subconsciously be my objective since it is what helps me have shelter and food.

Well, one way to go about this is to reframe shelter and food as being one of my objectives rather than money. In such a way I can work on projects that contribute to acquiring shelter and food without the need to involve money.

But money is used for *something*, right? So it's useful in some way. Otherwise, what would be the point of it? Yet we must not rely on money.

In more plain terms, I suppose we want to use money as a means to remove the need for money.

Perhaps another way to look at it is to view money as an indicator of your 'representative success in the wilderness'. In the wild, when surviving, your success is represented, basically, by how healthy, satisfied and safe you are. Money could be seen as a way to quantify this measurement of success. Or in other words, money is an indicator of how well you are 'surviving'.

In this way money might not necessarily need to be seen as something to get rid of, in case if survival is the natural order of things, since money would just be a representation of the success of your survival.

But then we have a question of what happens if we never spend any money. Does it still have any value or indication of success? Can we survive without spending any money? That's a question I don't seem to have a definite answer for as of now.

REF1

We need money because we need shelter and food and comfort. But do we need to also *spend* it, or just possess it?

Money could attract the material needs without needing to spend any, so saving it could be a reasonable choice. I think that is something that would need to be experimented with in order to find out.

Todo: start saving money in order to find out if needs can be met simply by possessing money and not spending it.

I suppose that's enough for a start of my 'writing day'. I'll think/wait for some other topic to write about. Unless money is still something relevant to me.