Hi it's 16:52.

Writing is fun, and at least I'm doing *something* lol.

Ok so I have some goals and tasks and stuff I gotta do.

The primary things are money and health.

And I guess one can't really get done well without the other.

But health is probably easier to do in the moment, like you can just exercise or something.

My apt is a bit messy and I think that's being reflected in my feelings (or vice versa).

Sooo... writing stuff...

I wanna write code and earn money and stuff but I'm worried that I'm not moving quickly enough... which might be false.

Cause like I can't get a project done in 2 days anyway (unless it's like a micro project or something). So even if I don't see results in 2 days with my pace (even tho the results are still there), doesn't mean I won't see them in a week, month.

My habits:
Brushing teeth: 1 week-or-so streak
Exercise: same as brushing teeth
Eating: kinda scattered but doing it
Drinking water: keep forgetting to do it often enough for the past week or so.
Coding: do it for max an hour a day, but doesn't feel consistent.
Quitting smoking: can't call it progress but I've started smoking on the balcony to clear the air in the apt
Tidying: did some a few days ago but haven't done any since. Have trash to sort on balcony and some items lying on the floor. The sink is slowly getting empty

Tasks:
Earn money
Repay debt
Quit smoking
Tidy balcony

I think writing more frequently could be a good choice. I already have a habit of noting stuff down but getting more into it could be nice.

I like journaling on paper but it feels like it takes a lot of effort to just write down a sentence or two. I guess paper writing could be practice in writing short but concise, to-the-point sentences. While digital could be for longer, more detailed writing.

So what am I currently doing to be earning money?

I have the WPR project but it's moving slow and doesn't feel worth it, I think I need to find alternatives.

I have gitnalytics which could have potential in B2B but I need to market it cause I receive no traffic (1-2 impressions on Google but no clicks)

I have NTZ arts where I recently got my first commission. I have 500 followers on Instagram and 10s of Ks of impressions on Pinterest but engagement is relatively low. I also recently made a Facebook page and have been sharing occasionally.

Right now, with NTZ, the only way someone can get commission or a print is by contacting me directly. Perhaps I could make a form or a website/page to take orders. 

Actually a form is a good idea, I'm gonna work on that after this.

Besides that I'm not sure how obvious it is that I offer commissions/sell prints. Perhaps I should add that to my bio. Yes, I'm gonna do that too.

Ok so I made a form and added it to my Pinterest and Instagram bios, and made it clear that requests are being taken.

My coffee is bitter, it has no milk cause I don't have milk.

I have like 20 eur but I guess I'm saving it.

Most of it is in crypto, 1$ is in stocks and like 2$ are in a savings fund.

I decided to start investing cause I reasoned that trying to directly rely on people and relationships for cash isn't sustainable.

Right now my investement strategy is just to long-term invest into projects/groups that I support instead of trying to play the market.

The ones that caught my attention were health related and dApp/developer experience ones. Seems that I stray from the finance/trading related ones. Basically more interest in sustainability, practicality, infrastructure and also particular niche projects like apps or services. Generally I guess rule of thumb is the ones that I could see bringing benefit to me as projects/tools and not necessarily merely as currency.

I'm hungry. What do.

I have oatmeal and sugar. No milk or jam.

So the hungry thing... feeling hungry and stuff....

I have oatmeal... I have some other stuff but basically all of it needs to be cooked.

Soo... money...

And stuff

How does that get done...

Regular work isn't worth it. Business could be worth it but takes time...

Investing... seems to work but also takes time unless I have capital
