Joe was just chilling on a hill in the grass, thinking about how much he would like a Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich. He kept chilling for a while, all the meanwhile thinking about how much he wants the Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich. Eventually, he got tired and exlaimed "I need to get that Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich!", so he got up. And so began his quest for finding his beloved Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich.

First he went to the Cow. The Cow greeted Joe - "good moo-rning", with which Joe replied "hi Cow, do you know where I can find a Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich?". The cow said "no, but I have some Peanut Butter Jelly, if that may help?". Joe said "no thanks", and went further

Next, Joe met the Beaver. The Beaver greeted him "hi Joe!". Joe asked the Beaver "Beaver, do you know where I can find a Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich?", to which the Beaver replied "no, I only have Strawberries". "Alright then", said Joe, and went further

Next, Joe met the Llama. The Llama greeted him "hey there". Joe asked the Llama "hi Llama, do you know where I can find a Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich?". The Llama said "no, but I've got some Bread".

Defeated, Joe went to the Rabbit. "Hi Joe, how was your day?" asked the Rabbit. Joe said "I've searched everywhere, but I can't find it, the Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich! I went to the Cow, but she only has Peanut Butter Jelly. I went to the Beaver, but he only has Strawberries. I went to the Llama, but she only has Bread. I wonder if I will ever find the Peanut Butter Strawberry Sandwich?"

The Rabbit thought for a while, and said "why don't you take all of their ingredients, and combine them into a Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich?". "Rabbit, you're a genius!" exclaimed Joe and ran back. He went to the Cow and asked her for some Peanut Butter Jelly, which she genereously shared. He went to the Beaver and asked him for a few Strawberries, which he too happily shared. He went to the Llama and asked her for two slices of Bread, which she gladly agreed to.

Finally, Joe ran back to the Rabbit, and together they made a Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich. He divided the Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich into 5 pieces. He gave one piece to Cow, one piece to Beaver, one for Llama, one for Rabbit, and the last one himself.

Joe went back to the hill he was chilling on in the morning, ate the piece of Peanut Butter Jelly Strawberry Sandwich, and kept chilling for the rest of the day, thinking about nothing at all.