In the sense of time being an illusion it could be described as a vector in spatial/geometric terms.

Or maybe an axis

Vt(1)

...

It could make sense for weight distribution to be a form element, like shape, based on the idea that an object's distribution of weight
alongside its form determines its anchor point.

...

A magnet is a material that is able to attract certain metals and interact with other magnets in unique ways.

A magnet has a field that can be visualized as a flat plane, plate or a coin in the middle of it.

The field has 2 sides.

When interacting with a metal, both sides of the field are attractive (+)

When interacting with other magnets, one side of each magnet becomes attractive, and the other side - repulsive (-)

There is no way to determine which side of a magnet is attractive and which is repulsive before coming in
contact with another magnet. Not because we may lack the means to determine them, but because they are indeterminate by nature. 
This ties to quantum mechanics concept of superposition and physical uncertainty, where indeterminism becomes an underlying 
trait of the physical reality instead of merely a psychological illusion.

Before interaction with another magnet, both sides of the field exist in a superpositioned state where either side could become either
attractive or repulsive. Before coming in contact, both sides of both magnets are attractive to each other. 
Once magnets start interacting, the superposition may collapse and they may acquire a field or an orientation/current
that is determinate. The condition for superposition collapsing is determining the orientation of a magnet/group of magnets.

In a determinate state 
all magnets will have the same orientation
~~(attractive sides facing each other and repulsive sides facing outwards)~~

A magnet or a group of magnets can be thought to be indeterminate and ++ attractive as long as they share same/similar form and the sides
cannot be distinguished.

A magnet can retain its indeterminate state while displaying magnetism when interacting with metals, since both sides of a magnet
will attract a metal (and both sides being attractive is an indicator of indeterminism in magnets)

When thinking in quantum magnets or conducting experiments, it's easier to picture it by using magnets that are symmetrical and one 
side being indistinguishable from the other.

The condition for this theory is the that the current direction of a single magnet cannot be determined/observed without coming
in contact with another magnet.

A proposal to introduce a concept of a superangle - a rotation angle that is indeterminate.

Magnets and groups of magnets might display properties of entanglement.

When a metal interacts with a group of magnets, it acquires an orientation if the group is determinate. If the state is indeterminate,
for example with a single magnet, then the metal remains ++

Basic magnetic structures:

Unit (single magnet). A single magnet is considered indeterminate and ++ attractive (both sides are attractive) until it comes in contact
with another magnet.

Pair (two magnets). Two magnets joined together bond/pair ~~and create a field and a current with an orientation~~. At this point, 
indeterminism can be retained, and both magnets can be thought to be ++ attractive if they share same/similar form and the sides
cannot be distinguished.


